PXC Operator 1.6.0 Release Notes (#565)
percona/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator: source/ReleaseNotes/Kubernetes-Operator-for-PXC-RN1.6.0.rst

.. _K8SPXC-1.6.0:qaq

================================================================================
*Percona Kubernetes Operator for Percona XtraDB Cluster* 1.6.0
================================================================================

:Date: September 30, 2020
:Installation: `Installing Percona Kubernetes Operator for Percona XtraDB Cluster <https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-pxc/index.html#quickstart-guides>`_

New Features
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-429`: Possibility to restore backups to a new Kubernetes-based environment
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-368`: Auto update system users by changing the appropriate secret name

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-144`: Allow adding ProxySQL configuration options via ConfigMap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-144`: Allow adding ProxySQL configuration options
```

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-343`: Helm chart officially provided with the Operator

Improvements
================================================================================

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-398`: New crVersion key in ``deploy/cr.yaml`` to indicate the API version that the Custom Resource corresponds to

Reviewer: is upgrade documentation updated?

Author: now it is :)

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-416`: Support of the HA Proxy proxy-protocol

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-416`: Support of the proxy-protocol in HAProxy
```

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-372`: Support new versions of cert-manager by the Operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-372`: Support new versions of cert-manager by the Operator (Thanks to user rf_enigm for reporting this issue)
```

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-317`: The possibility to configure the Operator's imagePullPolicy option (Thanks to user imranrazakhan for reporting this issue)

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-438`: Cluster name length limit extended to 32 characters to fit the maximum value allowed by Galera

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-438`: Cluster name length limit extended to 32 characters to fit the maximum value allowed by wsrep_cluster_name
```

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-411`: Extend certmanager configuration to add more domains (multiple SAN) to certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-411`: Extend cert-manager configuration to add more domains (multiple SAN) to certificate
```

Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-431`: HAProxy unable to start on OpenShift with the default ``cr.yaml`` file
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-408`: Insufficient MAX_USER_CONNECTIONS=10 for ProxySQL monitor user (increased to 100)

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-391`: HA Proxy and PMM cannot be enabled at the same time (Thanks to user rf_enigm for reporting this issue)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-391`: HAProxy and PMM cannot be enabled at the same time (Thanks to user rf_enigm for reporting this issue)
```

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-406`: Second node (XXX-pxc-1) always selected as donor (Thanks to user pservit for reporting this issue)
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-390`: Crash on missing HAProxy PodDisruptionBudget
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-355`: Counterintuitive YYYY-DD-MM dates in the S3 backup folder names (Thanks to user graham.webcurl for reporting this issue)
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-274`: The 1.2.0 -> 1.3.0 -> 1.4.0 upgrade path not working (Thanks to user martin.atroo for reporting this issue)

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-450`: The unnecessary ssls annotations added to HA Proxy Pods are potential reasons of the Pod restart if changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-450`: The TLS annotations are reasons of the unnecessary HAProxy Pod restarts
```

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-443`: The outdated version service endpoint URL

Reviewer: @hors is URL changed between releases?

Reviewer 2: It was discussed and re-worked.

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-435`: MySQL root password visible through ``kubectl logs``
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-426`: mysqld recovery logs not logged to file and not available through ``kubectl logs``

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-423`: HA Proxy not refreshing IP addresses even when the node gets different address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-423`: HAProxy not refreshing IP addresses even when the node gets different address
```

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-419`: Percona XtraDB Cluster incremental state transfers not taken into account by readiness/liveness checks

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-418`: HA Proxy not routing traffic for 1 donor, 2 joiners

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-418`: HAProxy not routing traffic for 1 donor, 2 joiners
```

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-417`: Certmanager not compatible with Kubernetes versions below v1.15 due to unnecessarily high API version demand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-417`: Cert-manager not compatible with Kubernetes versions below v1.15 due to unnecessarily high API version demand
```

*Percona Kubernetes Operator for Percona XtraDB Cluster* 1.6.0
================================================================================

:Date: October 7, 2020
:Installation: `Installing Percona Kubernetes Operator for Percona XtraDB Cluster <https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-pxc/index.html#quickstart-guides>`_

New Features
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-416`: Support of the proxy-protocol in HAProxy
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-429`: Possibility to restore backups to a new Kubernetes-based environment :ref:`when needed<backups-restore>`
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-144`: Allow adding ProxySQL configuration options
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-343`: Helm chart officially provided with the Operator

Improvements
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-398`: New crVersion key in ``deploy/cr.yaml`` to indicate the API version that the Custom Resource corresponds to (thanks to user mike.saah for contribution)
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-372`: Support new versions of cert-manager by the Operator (thanks to user rf_enigm for contribution)

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-317`: Possibility to configure the ``imagePullPolicy`` Operator option (thanks to user imranrazakhan for contribution)

Author: "thanks for reporting" is reasonable for a bug fix; but these 3 issues are improvements, and it looks like we're thanking user for makinug us know abouw our improvement

.. _K8SPXC-1.6.0:

================================================================================
*Percona Kubernetes Operator for Percona XtraDB Cluster* 1.6.0
================================================================================

:Date: October 7, 2020
:Installation: `Installing Percona Kubernetes Operator for Percona XtraDB Cluster <https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-pxc/index.html#quickstart-guides>`_

New Features
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-416`: :ref:`Support of the proxy-protocol<haproxy-conf-protocol>` in HAProxy

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-429`: Possibility to :ref:`restore backups to a new Kubernetes-based environment<backups-restore>`

Reviewer 3: This one is wrong. It is about restoring a backup without CR. @delgod

Author: Changed to "A possibility to restore backups to a new Kubernetes-based environment with no existing Percona XtraDB Cluster Custom Resource". I think mentioning "new environment" is valuable from the user's point of view (actual use cases of the feature).

Also K8SPXC-474 was renamed to  "The init container now has the same resource requests as the main container of a correspondent Pod (Thanks to user yann.leenhardt for contribution)" after the consultation with @qJkee

* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-144`: Allow :ref:`adding ProxySQL configuration options<proxysql-conf-custom>`
* :jirabug:`K8SPXC-343`: Helm chart :ref:`officially provided with the Operator`

Improvements
================================================================================

> * :jirabug:`K8SPXC-394`: Support of :ref:`"cluster-wide" mode<install-clusterwide>` for Percona XtraDB Cluster Operator

Reviewer: I think K8SPXC-394 is a feature, and K8SPXC-144 is an improvement
up to @spron-in

Author: I'd say yes, it makes sense to change statuses for these two issues.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, agree.
